
.TH TIMEKPR 8 "NOVEMBER 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH TIMEKPR 
timekpr \- keep control of computer usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B timekpr 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B timekpr 
tracks and controls the computer usage of user accounts. 
Using 
.B timekpr-gui(8), 
the administrator can limit daily usage per user by configuring

.IP . 
a daytime range (e.g. from 8am to 7pm) when to user is allowed to work.

.IP . 
an elapsed time (e.g. 90 minutes) the user is allowed to work per day.

.PP 
.B timekpr
allows users to login or to stay logged in only as long as both limits are met.
As long as a user hasn't any limits configured,
.B timekpr
does not do any monitoring or other actions on that user.

To
.I disallow logins outside the defined daytime range,
.B timekpr
relies on the settings in the configuration file for the 
.I time
PAM-Module entered by 
.B timekpr-gui.

To disallow users 
.I to stay logged in over the defined daytime range,
or
.I to stay logged in over the defined elapsed time,
.B timekpr 
checks the process tree at regular intervals. When a certain 
user is logged in, the file
.I /var/lib/timekpr/<username>.time
is updated to contain the new
elapsed time. This time is then checked against the total allowed
(stored in 
.I /etc/timekpr/<username>
).


When
.B timekpr
discovers a user violating its limits, the user is warned and given a grace
period to save his work. After this grace period, the user is 
.I kicked out
by killing its processes. In addition, the file 
.I /var/lib/timekpr/<username>.logout
is touched to state the fact that the user has been logged out forcibly by 
.B timekpr.

When the user tries to login again (within its daytime range, but all elapsed time
used up), it is kicked out immediately and then locked by editing the
config file for the 
.I access
PAM-Module. Now the user cannot login any more.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/timekpr.conf
.RS 
The system wide configuration file. See
.BR timekpr.conf (5)
for further details.
.RE
.I /etc/security/time.conf
.I /etc/security/access.conf
.RS 
The system wide PAM Configuration files for the time and and access modules.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The logfile is quite verbose:
.I /var/log/timekpr.log
. The logfile can located elsewhere, check the config file.

.SH BUGS
.B timekpr 
is in an early development stage. Please check https://bugs.launchpad.net/timekpr/+bugs 


.SH AUTHORS
Chris Jackson wrote the original bash script.

Even Nedberg and Savvas Radevic wrote the current python implementation.

Nicolas Iselin wrote this manpage.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR timekpr.conf (5),
.BR timekpr-gui (8),
The
.BR "Linux-PAM guide for system administrators" 
(modules 
.BR access
and
.BR limits)


